As I commented on the introduction
to the accounting course,
what I would like is that you
are able to understand accounting
well, understand financial statements,
know how to interpret
them and have some basic
notions about accounting
practice.
Therefore, you don't need to
be an expert in seating accounting,
or even be able to do so,
although I think it's okay
to have certain notions
about how the process
is, what tools are used,
etc.
And in today's class we will make
a brief review of the entire process
from the diary, accounts and financial
statements to a specific case.
A brief preliminary review of the process.
We recorded every movement in the journal.
These movements are also
recorded in each account.
We have balance sheet accounts
and results accounts.
At the end of the year, we
transfer the balance
of each account to the financial
statements.
Let us start by seeing how
we use the journal.
What we're going to see, this is
the diary, is how we're noting
different movements.
For example, we create society.
The bank account grows 100,000 euros
in debt and the social capital
account grows by 100,000 euros
opened.
We buy the machine and pay
for it.
We see how the balance of the machine
account grows.
It is an active account, therefore,
grows in debt.
And from banks, of these $100,
000 from banks, 75,000 come out.
At this time the bank balance
would be $25,000.
Now what we are going to do is a
purchase of goods on credit.
We will not pay the provider
in cash, but we will pay it in
a short period of time.
We note the purchase of commodities,
which is a profit account,
for $25,000.
At that time, the account of the supplier
is growing.
We are indebted to the
supplier $25,000.
We pay the provider.
The banks are leaving $25,000 and
we cancel the supplier
account, that debt we have,
for $25,000.
At this time the supplier account
has an account note on the debt
by 25,000, on the have by
25,000.
It is cancelled, there
is no balance.
We are selling the
goods we have bought.
We are growing the customer
account because we haven't
charged it with $30,000 yet.
And we record as an income the
sale of goods.
Look here that it is an account,
it is not an asset or liability
account, but it is a account of
the income status, by 30,000.
And now we charge those customers
who owe us $30,000, we will
charge them.
So the bank account increases
by $30,000 and we cancel
the debt that customers
had with us, as before
with suppliers.
Now, just fix that we have two
notes on the customer account,
30,000 and 30,000.
The balance is 0.
The last move is that we will
get a loan from a bank for
an amount of 80,000.
Now what we're going to do is
to transfer all these movements
to each of the accounts.
Accounts of assets.
What we should do is go back to the
newspaper, for example, to the banking.
We would go back to the diary
and write down all the movements
we see that appear in banks.
In this case not, in this case yes.
We pass them all, on duty and on
having, and we get a balance.
We do the same with the machine and
with the customers.
As you can see, the balance is 0.
We do the same with the accounts of liabilities,
which we only had the accounts
of suppliers and the accounts of
debt.
The supplier's is cancelled
because the balance is zero
and the debt is $80,000 we owe.
We also have results accounts.
If you remember, we
only sold for $30,
000 and bought goods
for $25,000.
As you can imagine, the
result of the exercise is $5,000.
Finally, we have the
net asset accounts.
We made a contribution to the
initial social capital of $100,
000 and we also obtained
a profit of $5,000 that we
have not distributed, so they
increase the net asset.
These 5,000 come out, as we have
seen earlier, from the accounts
of 70,000 and some expenses for
25,000.
We already have all the
accounts.
What we will do is carry the balance
of the accounts to the financial
statements.
In this case, we will look at
the balance sheet.
Here I have passed the salaries
of each of the accounts of asset,
net and liability and we can check
how we comply with the balance
or fundamental equation.
The asset is equal to the liability
plus the net asset.
And finally we'll see the results,
which in this case is very
simple because we only
had sales for $30,000
and purchases cost sales
for $25,000.
The difference is the result of the
exercise, which in this case we
have not distributed as dividends and
that is all in the balance sheet within
the net asset.